Hello and welcome in this lecture.
We are going to make the initial load of the last saved level much prettier.
So here I am in sandbox 2 but my last save was in sandbox one.
So if I go ahead and hit play then you can see there's a fade in and I'm there in sandbox one without
any kind of glitchy weird loading of different levels being displayed.
So let's dive in and see how it's done.
So what I want to tackle in this lecture is the ugly transition that we get when we go ahead and hit
play and it takes us over to a new scene.
Now the way I want to do this is to have it fade in from white.
So we start off at white.
Then we fade down.
Now the best place I think of doing this is in the saving wrapper.
So if we were to open up the saving wrapper yes we saw there was a little bit of a solution here.
Sorry about that.
And here we've got in the start we're currently loading the last scene.
But what I'd like to do is before this is to fade out completely and then to load the scene and then
to fade in now this fade out completely I want to happen immediately because I don't want to see the
current scene at all.
So what we've got to do for that to happen is introduce a new function to our fader.
So what it's going to do is it's gonna be a public void return because it doesn't take any time it's
going gonna be fade out immediate and it is going to take no input.
And then if you want to you can have a go at trying to implement this yourself.
So tiny mini challenge.
Okay.
So I'm going to go ahead.
So the idea here is that we're setting this canvas group dot our firm to be equal to 1.
That's basically how it fades out immediately.
So that's what we need to do in our saving wrapper.
Now we need to get hold of a fader.
So we're gonna need a fader fade.
E theta equals find object of type theta.
Like so.
Now one thing you'll notice we have need to include the scene management namespace but caution because
the portal already includes the saving namespace.
So there's a circular dependency there.
The saving namespace would include unseen management and unseen management there would be including
saving.
So how can we rectify that.
Well in my opinion saving wrapper is actually in the wrong place at the moment.
It should be in the same management namespace.
And here's why.
Everything else in saving is completely generic.
I could move it to a different game and we could use it as a saving library.
However the saving wrapper has got things like configuring how the default say file works loading up
and saving based on key bindings and stuff that generally I think would be the choice of a particular
game.
So what key bindings it uses and when it chooses to load up the last scene and things like that.
So I'm actually want to move this saving wrapper over into the scene management namespace and I'm actually
going to do this in unity because moving things moving scripts in unity means that they don't break
their links in the objects that you've got.
So if I go to where is it the saving folder and grab the scene saving wrapper and move it into scene
management then what we will find is that the current file has been deleted from disk so close that
down and you can see that the saving wrapper has been moved into scene management over in Visual Studio
code as well.
Now what you want to do also is change the namespace.
So it should be the scene management namespace and now the fader works but the saving system doesn't.
So we need to include using RPG saving.
Now that is absolutely fine we can use RPG saving reason being that we already are in this namespace
the portal is already using RPG saving and the saving wrapper can do too.
That's no problem.
We've got a dependency from scene management on to saving but not vice versa which is good because it
means we can take this scene saving module and use it in your other games.
Basically just drop it in and you need to change how we interface with it but not change the saving
system itself so one more problem that we might find is that here we are accessing this fader in start
but the fader itself has this thing going on to start where it gets the canvas group.
Now there is one issue with that because there could be a race potentially the start belonging to the
saving wrapper gets called before the start to the fader which means that the fader won't have a canvas
group and this will give you a no pointer thingy.
So what we actually need to do and generally this is the case in any reference getting is that we need
to change start to awake in the fader.
So a wake happens before start.
And this is generally we should set up your references in a wake and then you should use your references
and start.
And this means that you won't get null references so there are places elsewhere in the code base where
we haven't done this.
And as we see them we're going to try and switch them over to awake a little bit of a bad habit that
I've got.
So this is your challenge is to first of all fade out completely and then second to fade back in after
the load scene has happened.
So pose a video and have a go at this so the fading out completely should be fairly simple we've got
fade a dot fade out immediate that should just fade it out and then fade in is going to be fade a dot
fade in and we need a time for that to happen over.
So going to create a serialized field of type float which is going to be the fade in time like so and
then we can just pop that fade in time into fade in function call or method call and we need to remember
that this is returning a ion numerator.
So if we wanted to actually run the CO routine we need to do a yield return inside our i.e. numerator
the start I numerator and so if we go back over in to the game and hit play Let's see whether our fade
is going to work now.
Nice.
So it did seem to fade seemed to fade quite quickly because our fade time is set to zero.
So what we want is a point two or some kind of fade time that's a bit more natural and let's say it
might have already cashed that fade time in our saving system yeah it did.
So I might need to go ahead and change that two point two and if we go ahead and hit play now let's
see yep that fades in with a nice point to a second is a little bit of a bounce which we could try and
hide with a bit of a wait time as well but I'm quite happy with how it's looking.
Now let's just try a few things just a stress test this.
So first of all okay.
Yep it loaded me into the same scene here and that's great because I had come through the scenes gate
and if I go through into the top of my scene one should save me my location is being here.
Great.
Now if I go over to load up my different scene my scene sandbox to then a hit play what I'm expecting
to see is that I should load into sandbox 1 at the top of the level.
Let's try that out.
Yes.
Fantastic.
So it's working exactly as we would like it to and in fact that pretty much wraps it up for our saving
section.
So what have we achieved in the saving section quite a lot of things let's have a look just overview
some of the great classes that we've created so we've got our eye saver bill which allows us to implement
saving on any components we've got our saleable entity that we plop onto any game object that has Icesave
bills that we want to keep track of it generates unique identifiers with no overlaps inside the scene
with our cloud a global look up stuff and we've got a saving system which ties it all together looks
for all the Icesave oddballs saves them into a file keeps track of the last scene build index and restores
that serialized realizable vector we talked about sterilizing in general and how to serialize and what
we've got here we've got our faders which we've done before but we've been using them and expanding
on them and we've got a saving wrapper which finally just allows us to drive that system and we've modified
our portals to drive our savings system as well to use them as a check pointing system.
So with that foundational technology in place it is time to go onwards and upwards and add more functionality.